[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Robert Grant.
And this is The Code-X.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As a prodigious entrepreneur,
Robert Grant is a modern day
polymath who has seamlessly
integrated his innovations
across mathematics, sciences,
and the arts by transforming
them into balanced creations
designed to benefit humankind.
Grant utilizes alternative
base number systems
like the base 12 or
the duodecimal system
when formulating his
groundbreaking equations.
Equally significant,
Robert Grant
has a profound
intuitive connection
to Leonardo da Vinci.
Grant has successfully decoded
some of da Vinci's greatest
secrets embedded within his
most celebrated works of art.
What esoteric meanings
lie behind the precision
and geometry of da
Vinci's masterpieces?
And how did Robert Grant
come to decode them?
>> What is the purpose of life?
Why are we here?
The history that we have
been told and shown,
how are they potentially
different from our new reality?
Is what we've been
experiencing our whole lives
actually leading and culminating
to some bigger story?
And how, if it is,
could we ever find that?
One of the people that I've
looked to my entire life
is Leonardo da Vinci.
Leonardo da Vinci was
born in 1452 in Italy.
Referred to as the greatest
polymath of all time,
he was clearly a genius
mind who could span
multiple different disciplines.
And one of the things he's
most famously noted for
is that he was an
incredible cryptographer.
Of the 20 or so paintings
that he left as masterpieces,
most of them are still
studied vigorously today
for their hidden
inscriptions and have
been the subject of film and
other mainstream programming
to basically show us all what
da Vinci was trying to tell us.
Probably his most enigmatic
painting, of course,
is the "Mona Lisa" But
the one that stands out
as most recognizable
to all humans today
is the "Vitruvian Man."
And in it, Leonardo
tried to answer
this question of squaring
the circle because this age
old mystery of
squaring the circle
somehow represented even as
far back as the ancient Greeks
some merger of consciousness.
The feminine, represented by
the circle, and the masculine,
represented by the square.
>> The concept of squaring
the circle basically involves
constructing a square with an
equal surface area to a circle
or vice versa using nothing
more than a compass and straight
edge.
Leonardo da Vinci's drawing of a
male figure perfectly inscribed
in a circle and square,
the "Vitruvian Man,"
illustrates what
he believed to be
a divine connection between the
human form and the universe.
>> It was believed by ancient
Greeks for thousands of years
that if we could successfully,
without measurement,
square a circle, then we would
be able to achieve a balanced
consciousness in a super
conscious way that somehow,
the very act of drawing
the geometry out to square
the circle would lead to
irrevocable changes within
the human psyche.
Leonardo left for
us an end sign.
He left for us an archetype
of squaring of the circle.
But if we look at it, we'll
notice that he didn't actually
square the circle.
In fact, his square
wasn't a perfect square.
I started sketching
in my notebook
the "Vitruvian Man"
because I wanted to get
into the mind of Leonardo.
And one of the things
I first noticed
was that I thought
I need to measure
the angle between the navel
in the upper left corners
of the square.
Because what Leonardo
had done is he
placed the square in a
very unique position where
the base of the circle
was tangent to the base
of the square.
And when you measure
it, the square
doesn't actually measure
the same area value.
It's far too small.
Da Vinci worked
on this according
to Walter Isaacson, a
noted biographer who wrote
a complete story of his life.
>> According to Walter
Isaacson, Leonardo da Vinci was
the co-author of a book
on geometry called "Divina
Proportione" or
"Divine Proportion"
in which they broke down
the golden ratio and its
application to geometry through
the visual arts of perspective
and architecture, something
da Vinci was a master at.
>> So clearly, he
understood proportion.
And yet, the square turns
out to be a different value
than the circle in area.
One of the things that Leonardo
always did, and he did it also
in the "Vitruvian Man,"
is he always wrote
in backwards mirrored text.
In fact, when he doesn't write
the backward mirrored text,
we can assume that he
did that for a reason.
>> Though the exact
reasoning behind Leonardo da
Vinci's backwards writing
may never be known,
several researchers believe it
was a way for him to hide his
ideas from prying eyes of the
Roman Catholic Church whose
teachings stood in opposition to
many of da Vinci's observations
and ideas.
It would only make sense for him
to encrypt his writings so as
to protect himself from
any possible persecution.
>> What da Vinci was doing
was showing us his cipher key
to his inscriptions.
Because when da Vinci writes
in the normal way forward,
left to right without
mirroring the text,
he's actually telling
us and giving us
a hint that herein lies one
of his famous inscriptions.
And as we look at
the "Vitruvian Man,"
our deeper analysis
shows us that he has
hidden a lot more encryption.
>> The iconic "Vitruvian Man,"
drawn circa 1490 by the great
Leonardo da Vinci, is probably
the most famous image of all
time.
And yet, for over
five centuries,
no one has noticed he encoded
within it astounding knowledge
of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
I recently observed
that the angle
from the navel to the
top corner of the square
exactly matches the side
slope angle of the pyramid.
I asked cryptologist
Alan Green to investigate
da Vinci's masterpiece with
the same mathematical rigor.
What we found challenges
our entire concept
of what this enigmatic work
of art is really about.
It's widely known
that the Great Pyramid
embodies the ratio of the
radiuses of the Earth and moon.
But Green realized that by
inscribing a circle within da
Vinci's square and raising that
circle so its center coincides
with the center of
the "Vitruvian Man"
circle at the navel, six
perfect pyramid cross-sections
are revealed, along with
an exact geometrical match
of the Earth-moon-pyramid
relationship.
Da Vinci states explicitly in
the backwards mirrored texts
surrounding his image that its
proportions are exact integer
ratios of the whole man.
And he has cut his
man in 14 places,
clearly identifying
these proportions.
In addition, he says, decrease
the height of man by 1/14.
A second veiled reference to
the Horus Eye myth in which set
cuts Osiris's body
into 14 parts.
So Leonardo seems to have
encrypted the Great Pyramid
of Giza into the proportions of
the square versus the circle.
He had to deliberately
make that square too
small to match the area.
But actually, what
it's doing is it's
encrypting for us
the slope angle
of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
>> According to
the Rhind Papyrus,
the seked of the Great
Pyramid, which is the unit
of measurement used by
the pyramid builders,
was five palms and
two fingers per cubit.
This unit of measurement
allowed for the slope
of the face of the
pyramid to be 14/11,
which is the mathematical
relationship of phi.
Interestingly enough, the
inverse slope of its edges
is 9/10, which gives us
the relationship of pi.
When used in
conjunction, these two
advanced mathematical
formulas provide a stability
to the Great Pyramid that
isn't found in the other bent
pyramids of the region.
>> And for those of you
that study and have studied
the Great Pyramid,
Egyptologists alike,
you'll notice that the
most important number that
determines the volume of the
Great Pyramid on the entire
Giza plateau is 51.843 degrees.
And here, da Vinci encrypted
it right into the upper corner
with both hands
pointing exactly to it,
as if begging us to
look further here.
>> It became clear that da
Vinci had intimately profound
knowledge about the pyramid.
But is there any proof that
da Vinci ever visited Egypt?
>> Well, it happens that he
wrote a letter that showed up
in "The Codex Atlanticus" which
is a compendium of many of his
sketches.
What we do also notice is
that this forward written
letter that he left in
The Codex Atlanticus which
is titled "To the
Devatdar of the Lieutenant
of the Sultan of
Cairo, Babylon."
And in this letter,
he points out
that he was working under
an engagement for Sultan
Qaitbay, a famous Mamluk
sultan to this day, that
is known as being a
great philosopher king
and being the creator of
many archaeological monuments
and buildings that still
stand to this day in Cairo.
Da Vinci references
in his letter
that he arrived in Cairo.
Now, from 1482 until
1486, even Walter Isaacson
doesn't know what happened
to the historical record
of Leonardo da Vinci.
Some refer to this time
period as the lost years
of Leonardo's life.
>> Leonardo da Vinci was
considered one of the most
famous people of his time.
Most of his life was chronicled
except for a few lost years.
Is it possible that "The
Codex Atlanticus" points us
to what he was doing during that
undocumented period of time?
And if so, what else might it
reveal about what Leonardo da
Vinci saw while in Egypt?
>> But in this letter, da Vinci
not only references arriving
into Cairo.
He also references the
great Mount Taurus--
chronically, his
experience and review
of that mountain
in abject detail.
This might actually
be one of the reasons
why art historians tend to
believe that this is simply
a fictional account
because his description is
so colorful that they believe
that it must not be real.
In fact, he goes into
such abject detail
about the mountain, as well
as his experience going inside
of one of the chambers
of that mountain
that he ends up having
the reader believe
with the lack of knowledge
that he's referencing something
altogether different.
But Bull Mountain and his
reference to Mount Taurus
is well known to
Egyptologists because that is
the name of the Great Pyramid--
Bull Mountain, signified
by two chevrons and a bull
which represents the Apis bull.
>> Originally called Bull
Mountain or Mount Taurus,
the Great Pyramid at Giza was
associated with Apis, or Hep,
which was the chief
bull deity of Egypt.
He was later renamed the
Apis bull by the Greeks.
In the chronicles about Mount
Taurus, or the Great Pyramid,
Leonardo da Vinci wrote, "The
peaks of the great Mount Taurus
to the West.
These peaks are of
such a height that they
seem to touch the sky.
And in all of the world,
there's no part of the Earth
higher than its summit.
And the rays of the sun
always fall upon its East side
four hours before daytime.
And being of the
whitest stone, it
shines resplendently to
fulfill the function of these."
Though Leonardo da Vinci's
colorfully detailed accounts
of his time in Cairo have been
perceived as a work of fiction
by some historians, it is
clear his understanding
of the Great Pyramid
appears more factual
once the esoteric meanings
behind his accounts
are revealed.
But what else might we
glean from his writings?
>> The original name of the
Giza Plateau was not Giza.
The original name was
Rostau, The Rose Cross.
In Greek, the word
"Taurus" also means bull.
It would be spelled if we wrote
it out in English, T-A-U-R-O-S.
But if we read it backwards,
it would be read as Rostau.
Da Vinci had encrypted in this
letter esoteric understanding
and wisdom that only one who
had understood the connection
to the alpha, which is
the reference to the bull,
the letter A, could potentially
mean and make the connection
back to the Great Pyramid.
That, along with the
51.843 degree reference,
points irrevocably
to something more
during his time
of his lost years,
spending that time in Egypt.
Da Vinci is here referencing
in his encrypted form
of this letter his
visitation and review,
his personal observation of the
pyramids of the Rostau Plateau.
In addition, we also
have to look more closely
at Rosicrucianism.
Rostau means rose cross--
the tau cross, also in
reference to the cross
that Jesus was nailed to,
shaped like the letter T.
So the Great Pyramid has
another perspective on it.
And that is that each base side
is between 755 and 756 feet,
with slight variation
at each one.
But what we see is that,
very interestingly,
another reference to
squaring of the circle
is embedded within the
proportional dimensions
of the Great Pyramid if we use
the height of the Great Pyramid
as a reference point to advise
us of the radius of a circle.
So when we look at
this reference point
and say that the
radius of the circle
would inform the height of
the Great Pyramid of 481 feet
or 280 cubits and
the side of its base
would be 440 cubits or 756
feet, then what we find
is that it informs exactly
the proper squaring
of the circle
where the perimeter
value will match the
circular circumference value.
Now, there are two ways
anciently to square the circle.
One is to square it, matching
the area for the square
and the area of the circle.
This is the more prominent of
the two methods of measurement.
But what the Great Pyramid
does is it goes and points us
toward the second
measurement, which
is the perimeter of
the square equaling
the circumference of
the circle, speaking
yet again to some
relationship of this balance
that the builders felt was
necessary to communicate back
to us in our day
thousands of years
later in a living manifest of
stone somehow to the importance
of this understanding.
What we also see is
that the Great Pyramid--
when we understand
that it's embedded
within the "Vitruvian
Man," we start
to find other inscriptions
deeply embedded
within this image.
Now, the magic.
Da Vinci's lines reveal
a perfect blueprint
of the internal structure
of the pyramid's chambers.
Only the Queen's chamber
seems to be missing.
But is it?
Queen Isis mourning the
cutting of her husband's body
into 14 parts represents the
14 phases of the waning moon.
Her reconstituting Osiris's
body represents the 14 phases
of the waxing moon.
Da Vinci has
precisely identified
the presently known subterranean
Queen's and King's chambers,
the ground level of the pyramid,
its defining side angle,
and its mathematical
relationship to Earth and moon
centuries before these
were supposedly known,
which begs the question, do his
upper lines represent presently
unknown chambers?
Da Vinci seems to be telling
us the Great Pyramid hides
a deeper esoteric symbolism
that has ever been suspected--
a blueprint of man's
unfolding spiritual journey
through the sacred energy
centers of the spine known
as the chakras.
Perhaps finding these
inner chambers in ourselves
is our ultimate purpose,
and the Great Pyramid
but a metaphor for the
true measure of mankind.
So Leonardo da Vinci
left us a blueprint
of the Great Pyramid embedded
within this iconic image
of the "Vitruvian Man"
where each line that
is both horizontal and
vertical we have now only
to the conclusion
to draw are actually
encrypted important locations
of the Great Pyramid itself.
>> Is it possible that these
lines within Leonardo da
Vinci's "Vitruvian Man" point
not only to the chambers within
the Great Pyramid but to other
chambers that we have yet
to discover?
In 2017, while Robert
Grant was in Egypt visiting
the Great Pyramid, a
Japanese delegation
was there, called the
Scan Pyramid Project,
using ground-penetrating
radar and muon transfer
technology to locate
undiscovered voids
within the great structure.
>> The Japanese delegation
had located a void space above
the Grand Gallery that appears
to lead exactly to the throat
chakra line on the
"Vitruvian Man,"
indicating that where da Vinci
has left us another horizontal
line on the
Vitruvian man's body,
might be leading us exactly to
the precise location of another
chamber heretofore undiscovered.
Additionally, there are
other lines at the forehead,
at the pineal gland,
and at the crown chakra.
And further, there are lines
very deep on both knees,
potentially pointing
us to other chambers
that we just don't
know about yet.
What is it that Leonardo is
trying to point us towards?
He further gave us
another inscription
in his backward mirrored text
where he references 1/14,
which, of course, is relational
to the Osiris mythology
where Seth cuts his
body into 14 parts
and does the same
by separating out
the body of the Vitruvian
man in 14 different places.
But very interestingly and
something we cannot miss is
that Leonardo is potentially
pointing us to something that
relates directly to the
perfect squaring of the circle.
Because if we are
to place a 1/14
separation of the Vitruvian Man
down at the base of the circle
and center the square
over that circle,
it will give us
exactly the location
of placement of a square.
Proportionally, that would
give us precisely the same area
value as the circle, thus
fulfilling the ancient mystery
that is believed to be
impossible since 1882:
to square the circle without
any measurements whatsoever,
using only a compass
and a straight edge.
I can't help but
ask the question,
maybe that the Great
Pyramid is really
a reflection of our own
conscious progression.
That as we ascend
to understand more
about our own selves and
our own consciousness
is expanding through each
of our chakra centers,
that maybe, we'll
understand more
of the mysteries
of this reflection
that we call the Great Pyramid.
Join me in this
journey through time
and this journey
around the globe
as we crack this mystery left
to us not only by Leonardo,
but other Renaissance
and ancient polymaths
and philosophers who have
been endlessly pointing us
to the same conclusions
that the world is now
on the brink of change.
As we enter a new age
and Aquarian Renaissance
that we'll be
discovering and working
on together throughout
the course of this series,
it may have an indelible
impact on how you
perceive your world around you.
It might actually
impact you to see
the world in different terms
and recognize that what we judge
is what we attract
until we no longer judge
those things that we attract.
Thank you for joining me on
this episode of The Code-X.